the last time I looked at a smartwatch
it was the $70 cmf watch Pro 2 and it
did a lot of stuff pretty dang well so
it makes it hard to justify a $300
Smartwatch from the likes of Samsung but
the cmf watch wasn't perfect there's a
lot of weird software quirks and I'm
expecting that Samsung is going to bring
a far more luxurious and a bit of extra
experience to the table that cmf just
can't provide and just looking at it
already from the hardware alone you can
tell that this is a more premium product
I think the band with its nice ribbing
for my pleasure is uh pretty cool I also
like these blue and orange kind of
accents these little tiny little bits of
fabric I like them a lot but before I
get too entice by this let's see what
else is in the Box we got a long Samsung
box and inside we have a charger uh
classic Wireless this is my preferred
type of charging it's a magnetic cradle
um you can lay on the watch in any
direction and it will charge which is
nice which means that you don't have to
Fumble around to try and get it lined up
exactly how you want on the other side
it is a a bunch of oh that's the look
ain't that just the it's bound it's a
bound book it's the cutest little book
you could read it to your mice friends
other than that that's all you get
outside of that you get the watch 7 the
first thing I noticed about it is it's
missing a fan favorite feature that
would be the rotating bezel that they
got rid of and then they brought back on
the six classic now we have a just a
normal screen bezel that is touch
sensitive so you can still kind of do
the turn the bezel action you can still
scroll like that but it doesn't have the
same physical satisfaction speaking of
physical satisfaction we got nice
buttons on the side that are very clicky
as well as actually capacitive if I'm
not mistaken they can detect if you're
just touching like this on the bottom we
have Optical sensors for tracking stuff
like your blood oxygen and your heart
rate we have a infrared thermometer
right there a pressure vent for when
you're going swimming and stuff like
that and then on the side here we got
our little microphone it is Aluminum but
has a nice premium finish the lugs are
20 mm apart and have a standard Mount so
you don't have to use some sort of weird
proprietary connection system you can
swap this out with any watch band that
you might already own and it's going to
be really easy to find replacements love
to see it and on the front we have our
display behind sapphire glass and it
looks pretty dang nice and I'll give you
a little sneak peek at it after you get
a sneak peek of our sponsor thanks to
NZXT for sponsoring this video their
C1500 is a 1500 watt 80 plus Platinum
certified power supply this level of
Energy Efficiency means less power
consumption and a cooler and quieter
system it's fully modular so that's
easier and cleaner cable management for
you plus it's 180 mm form factor means
more case space and better air flow get
yours today using the link in the video
description off camera we went through
setup nothing to note pretty smooth
setup and this is the watch face you
start with and um I I don't really like
it that much it's trying to do like a
weird interesting like number thing like
right now it's 2 p.m. or I guess it's
almost 3 but this has a two in the
background it's just not very readable
to me um and I also just am not a huge
fan of the style luckily a lot of these
watch faces are like very customizable
you can change the background color you
can change your hands you can change
your hand color you can change your
complications so if I don't want UV on
the side I can go through a whole host
of different ones that they have I will
say that it's not as flexible as say
some of the pixel watch faces where you
can literally just put like a link to
any app on your device here the app has
to support the Samsung like home screen
it's not quite as robust luckily just to
the side you can put various different
widgets from all sorts of different apps
anything that seems relevant to you as
well as you can navigate this quickly by
using that touch sensitive
bezel wow when you're moving through
these you have these dots at the top
that indicate your place in the menus
and it does not like line up in a simple
way with the uh bezel so I find it's a
little imprecise so it doesn't save me
much time compared to just swiping like
that maybe we can fine-tune it I'm not
quite sure they have lots of like tons
of watch faces as well as you can
download any watch face you want from
the Google Play store or maybe if they
would prefer they probably want you to
go through the Samsung store but who's
going to use that this is my preferred
watch face I like it cuz it has many
complications on it I can do the weather
I can see the forecast step count
battery speaking of battery this thing
uh it's pretty good uh I used it for a
little bit earlier and it got a day
about a day and a half on a full charge
without me kind of stressing too much
about it that's including having like
Health sensors on 24/7 but the always on
display was not always on I always saw
like a movie and stuff like that and I
kept it off I would expect that if
you're like kind of heavily using it and
you want tracking on all the time you
can expect a full day to a day and an
overnight sleep tracking session and
then you're going to need to get this on
the charger which is good for me cuz I
like to just keep my charger at work
though it really would be nice if I
didn't have to really stretch it through
the weekend Samsung has been making uh
their watch OS for a long time it's
tried and true it's familiar you get way
too many included Samsung apps that you
just don't want but you do have access
to all sorts of apps that you can add
yourself um and the nice thing about the
Samsung watches is that it integrates
really well with all of these apps
basically every app has support for the
Samsung watch in some capacity which is
great because for my main use case for
SmartWatches it is the health tracking
and Samsung does quite a good job their
health tracking app is really robust um
there's tons of stuff in it there's a
lot of free uh exercise videos and stuff
like that if you if that's your speed it
honestly does a lot more in a single app
than anything that Google currently
offers I feel like in typical Google
fashion a lot of their stuff is spread
out like between their fit app and then
there's their Fitbit app and the Fitbit
app has been getting a bit better lately
in terms of kind of bringing all of
those tracking features and health
features into into one single area but
Samsung feels like they offer a lot more
without having to pay a
subscription uh which I appreciate I
also found that heart rate track in
seems accurate and they actually can
measure your body composition with this
watch which to preface there's not
really a good way to measure your body
composition even the dexa scan which is
a current gold standard for measuring
body composition can be very very
inaccurate and varies wildly depending
on how much water or food you've eaten
it's it's hard to do this claims to be
as good as a dexa scan I don't know if I
believe it and I don't really have a
good way of verifying it but it should
be known that this is going to be using
bio impedance which is like it'll send a
small current through the buttons and to
the bottom of the watch and it creates a
circuit and the amount of resistance you
get will be roughly what your body
composition is if that sounds kind of
crazy and imprecise that's because it is
I think it's cool that they offer it
because even if something is relatively
imprecise and is inaccurate you can
still see a general Trend especially if
it's the first thing you do when you
wake up but take it with a grain of salt
I will say that that using the UI is
really Snappy and really fluid and
that's probably thanks to their new exos
w1000 chipset that they have in here on
top of Speedy performance the chip also
provides you with LTE and GPS so you can
take this pretty much anywhere in the
world including into water because it is
ip68 water resistant and the casing is
rated for up to five atmospheres of
pressure I also think that the way this
thing handles notifications and stuff
like that is really good it syncs well
with the phone at least it's a does a
great job of syncing well with a Samsung
phone Samsung can be a bit annoying when
it comes to working with devices outside
of their ecosystem for example you can't
use this with an iPhone at all even the
$70 watch or any Fitbit can be used with
an iPhone
it's dumb it's dumb that they close
themselves off from that market it
really just allows people to kind of
funnel into the Apple watch ecosystem
which is like cool it just seems like a
I don't know a bad idea if your Samsung
to just like let them take it and
although it works with any Android phone
you won't be able to take advantage of
the Galaxy AI features on here unless
you have a new Samsung phone how much
are you missing from that tough to say
depends on how much those AI features
matter to you I personally don't care
but it's just frustrating that they are
locking these features and trying to
pull the same annoying anti-consumer
behavior that Apple does when it comes
to trying to lock you into an ecosystem
as opposed to just playing nicely samung
I just want you to be better than Apple
let Apple users use your watch because
Apple's never going to let us plebians
use an Apple Watch right for me the 40mm
version of this watch is a great size I
think it's a great product it feels
fully fledged I've run into almost no
bugs in my time using it it runs super
smoothly I think the battery life is
adequate but it's kind of Overkill at
its $300 price point for someone like me
who is mainly looking for those Health
tracking features like tracking my heart
rate because I have atrial fibrillation
or tracking my workouts when I'm at the
gym especially and and this is a big
thing is I think for a lot of people you
really only need like that $200 $150 fit
bit to get 90% of what you want they
don't come with the same premium build
and I do I I will say that I think that
this looks a little bit cooler and a
little bit better than say your average
Fitbit it's a little bit more generic a
little bit less sporty so it doesn't
look quite like a tracker more like an
actual watch I think for most people at
$300 you should really consider
something a bit cheaper unless you
really want to go full Nomad no phone
and put a SIM in this thing I love it
Samsung knows exactly what they're doing
when it makes a smartwatch but I
wouldn't put my money towards it would
you let us know in the comments down
below thanks for watching short circuit
if you like this video why don't you
check out my last video on the cmf watch
Pro 2 it's a lot cheaper at $70 and the
software might be a little bit wonky but
it might just be the right fit for you